# CS340_Client-serverDevelopment

    How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in   Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
    Admittedly, I tend to go for the simplest and easiest-to-read solutions over more elegant and efficient ones and develop for present needs/requirements instead of considering future adjustments or requirements that may develop as the project expands. This got me into some trouble with this project and necessitated a review and refactoring of the intermediate Python module layer as the HTML interface layer was being developed. However, this step did benefit from the flexibility/simplicity of my first draft, as it made the editing process easy, and made apparent greater changes that I could make to the layer to improve the potential of the interface should the scope change again in the future.

    How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
    See above. I took a similar approach to this problem as I would most others. I focused on present requirements at each step, developing for those wholistically, but simply. The unique challenge this project presented was that the scope of the project gradually expanded over the course of the class as layers were continuously added on to the solution (database access/querying/manipulation -> python modules/methods -> HTML accessible interface). While understanding the final scope of the project from the start may have led to more optimized drafts at each step in the production, it also could have led to searching for elegant and comprehensive solutions in place of the simple, effective, modular solutions which ended up streamlining the process.
    
    What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do its work better?
    Computer scientists increase accessibility and efficiency with regard to services and information. For example, this project dramatically increases the efficiency and efficacy of the process required to select a candidate for the training the client provides. Trying to track and then search through ten-thousand records by hand would be a daunting task for an organization, and more so for an individual. Especially when most of the records would be dismissed without needing real examination, even that step becomes trivial with the help of software tools like this one. It won't do the leg work of procuring or training the animal for service, but it makes the task of finding good candidates much easier and faster to accomplish. 
